Phorward Foundation Toolkit (libphorward)
libphorward 0.17
June 2012

= DESCRIPTION =

The Phorward Foundation Toolkit is a package consisting of a powerful C
functions library, also called Phorward Foundation Library (libphorward), and
some console-based scripts and programs.

The toolkit can be used for enhanced, general software development in C.
The library provides many useful and extending features to C application and
systems programmers, including

- Standard data structures: Linked lists, hash tables, dynamic stacks, bitsets
- Extending string functions for dynamic string management
- Functions to work with sets (set theory)
- Full-fledged regular expression parser, engine and management tools
- Platform-independent, system-specific functions
- XML-parser (DOM) and management tools
- Variant data type structure to work with arbitrary values in one object
- Consistent Unicode and UTF-8 support
- Object-oriented fashion of some function interfaces (e.g. regular expressions)
-

Furthermore, the package provides

- min_lalr1, an experimental LALR(1) parser generator (used to bootstrap UniCC)
- pdoc, a source-code to documentation generator
- pproto, a C-functions prototype generator
- Several scripts for quick source code maintenance
-

Please check out http://phorward.phorward-software.com/ from time to time to get
the latest news, documentation, updates and support on the Phorward Foundation
Toolkit.

= INSTALLATION =

Installation of the Phorward Foundation Toolkit is simple as every GNU-style
open source program. Extract the release tarball or clone the Mercurial
repository into a directory of your choice.

Run

``` ./configure

to configure the build-system and generate the Makefiles.
Then type

``` make

and

``` make install

(properly as root) to install the toolkit into your system.

On Windows systems, the usage of Cygwin or another Unix shell environment is
reqired.

= AUTHOR =

The UniCC LALR(1) Parser Generator and the UniCC Standard C Parser Template is
written and maintained by Jan Max Meyer, Phorward Software Technologies.

= COPYRIGHT =

Copyright (C) 2006-2012 by Phorward Software Technologies, Jan Max Meyer

You may use, modify and distribute this software under the terms and conditions
of the Artistic License, version 2.

The full license terms can be obtained from the file LICENSE, provided
with both the source and binary packages of UniCC.
