


The pccl object is established on top of the plist object and encapsulates easy-to-handle low-level functions for character-class handling.

These functions are heavily used by the library's regular expressions and parser implementations, but may also be helpful for other related projects. The pccl can handle character classes, by chaining ranges.

It supports a fully-fledged set theory automatism, including construction of intersections, unions, range removal or appending. pccl objects are designed to work on huge alphabets with low memory consumption. By default, characters are specified as **wchar_t** (wide-character unicode) values.

- @pccl_create() - create and optionally parse a new character-class,
- @pccl_parse() - parse characters and ranges from a string into a character-class,
- @pccl_negate() - negate a character-class over the character universe,
- @pccl_add(), @pccl_addrange() - add single characters or ranges to the class,
- @pccl_del(), @pccl_delrange() - delete single characters or ranges from the class,
- @pccl_test(), @pccl_tesrange() - test if a character or range matches a class,
- @pccl_to_str() - convert a character-class into a string,
- @pccl_free() - destroy a previously created character-class,
-

```
pccl* ccl;

/* Construct a character-class within a universe of the ASCII-alphabet (0-255):
	"-0123456789ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOQRSTUVWXYZ_abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz"
*/
ccl = pccl_create( 0, 255, "A-Za-z0-9_-" );

/* Invert character class */
pccl_negate( ccl );

/* Remove system chars */
pccl_delrange( ccl, 0, 31 );

/* Oh, and delete the "z" */
pccl_del( ccl, 'z' );

/* But add tab again! */
pccl_add( ccl, '\t' );

/* Enable all from 32 to 126  */
pccl_addrange( ccl, ' ', '~' );

/* Alternative way: */
pccl_parse( ccl, " -~", TRUE );

/* Test for characters */
printf( "A is in? %s\n", BOOLEAN_STR( pccl_test( ccl, 'A' ) );
printf( "a-z are in? %s\n", BOOLEAN_STR( pccl_testrange( ccl, 'a', 'z' ) );
printf( "\\n is in? %s\n", BOOLEAN_STR( pccl_test( ccl, '\n' ) );

/* Generate string */
printf( "My ccl is: %s\n", pccl_to_str( ccl, TRUE ) );

/* Drop it! */
pccl_free( ccl );
```

Useful, additional functions when working with pccl are:

- @pccl_compare() - compare character-classes,
- @pccl_diff() - create differencing character-class of two classes,
- @pccl_erase() - clear character-class,
- @pccl_get() - retrieve characters or ranges by offset,
- @pccl_instest() - like @pccl_test(), but with insensitve-character check,
- @pccl_intersect() - create intersection character-class of two classes,
- @pccl_print() - print character-class (for debug),
- @pccl_parsechar() - parse an escaped character sequence into a wide-character,
- @pccl_parseshorthand() - parse a typical shorthand (\d, \w) into a character-class.
-
